Update median_absolute_deviation aggregation. (#9453)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/median-absolute-deviation.md

# Median absolute deviation aggregations

> The `median_absolute_deviation` metric is a single-value metric. Median absolute deviation is a variability metric that measures dispersion from the median.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `median_absolute_deviation` aggregation is a single-value metric aggregation. Median absolute deviation is a variability metric that measures dispersion from the median.
```

Median absolute deviation is less affected by outliers than standard deviation, which relies on squared error terms, and is useful for describing data that is not normally distributed.

> Median absolute deviation is computed as follows:<br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Median absolute deviation is computed as follows:

```

> median_absolute_deviation = median( | X<sub>i</sub> - Median(X<sub>i</sub>) | )

Reviewer 2: nit: consistency in `median` vs `Median`

Author: This is an edge-case artifact of a typographic workaround: In line 16, "Median" is capitalized because it's the first word in a sentence. Line 17 is a formula and "median_absolute_deviation" is a variable name. But because we're using HTML notation to create the subscripts we can't enclose the line in a code block or otherwise (as far as I know) change the font. If there's a better way to do this, I'd be happy to try it.

Reviewer 2: I pointed out the 2 medians in L17 itself, and not in L16:

median_absolute_deviation = **m**edian( | X<sub>i</sub> - **M**edian(X<sub>i</sub>) | )

Both the medians denote formulas, so either

median_absolute_deviation = Median( | X<sub>i</sub> - Median(X<sub>i</sub>) | )

or 

median_absolute_deviation = median( | X<sub>i</sub> - median(X<sub>i</sub>) | )

Author: Ah, OK. Missed that, thanks.

```suggestion
median_absolute_deviation = Median( | X<sub>i</sub> - Median(X<sub>i</sub>) | )
```

> median_absolute_deviation = Median( | X<sub>i</sub> - Median(X<sub>i</sub>) | )

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
median_absolute_deviation = median( | x<sub>i</sub> - median(x<sub>i</sub>) | )
```

````

> In practice, for large datasets `median_absolute_deviation` is estimated. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](#adjusting-estimation-accuracy).

Reviewer 2: "In practice, for large datasets `median_absolute_deviation` is estimated."

I'm not sure why do we need to add this detail as major statistical metrics are only useful when evaluated upon a large dataset. Plus, there is no quantification of what exactly `large` is.

----

Or alternatively, did you mean something like: 

In practice, estimating `median_absolute_deviation` for large data_sets is computationally expensive.  You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](#adjusting-estimation-accuracy).

(Actually I like this explanation, thoughts?)

Author: You're right, "large" data sets are ill-defined here. As I understand it (correct me if I'm wrong), the key factor is whether the dataset fits in memory, and is complicated by doing comparisons across multiple nodes in map-reduce. 

I'd argue that the statistic is useful for _relatively_ small datasets (say hundreds or a few thousand) that could be computed exactly, but I take your point that in many (most?) cases the dataset is potentially massive.

```suggestion
In practice, `median_absolute_deviation` is estimated. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](#adjusting-estimation-accuracy) for details.
```

Reviewer 2: I think your suggestion makes sense. 

I want to add up a small clarification as well in the first statement:

In practical implementations, `median_absolute_deviation` is estimated rather than calculated exactly due to memory restrictions. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](#adjusting-estimation-accuracy) for details.

---- 

Adding that detail since the steps involved in calculating the MAD are exact. Its the memory implications which prevent us from calculating the exact MAD and that's why we rely on estimation algorithms like TDigest here (explained later).

Author: > In OpenSearch, irrespective of the data size, we follow the same TDigest algortihm.

Thanks, that's important to know. 

```suggestion
OpenSearch estimates `median_absolute_deviation` rather than calculating it directly due to memory limitations. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/9453/files#adjusting-estimation-accuracy) for details.
```

> OpenSearch estimates `median_absolute_deviation`, rather than calculating it directly, due to memory limitations. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance; see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/9453/files#adjusting-estimation-accuracy) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch estimates `median_absolute_deviation`, rather than calculating it directly, because ofmemory limitations. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance. For more information, see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/9453/files#adjusting-estimation-accuracy).
```

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch estimates `median_absolute_deviation`, rather than calculating it directly, because of memory limitations. This estimation is computationally expensive. You can adjust the trade-off between estimation accuracy and performance. For more information, see [Adjusting estimation accuracy](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/9453/files#adjusting-estimation-accuracy).
```

## Parameters

The `median_absolute_deviation` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type      | Description |
| :--       | :--               | :--            | :--         |
| `field`   | Required          | String         | The name of the numeric field for which the median absolute deviation is computed. |

> | `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents with missing values are omitted from the average. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents with missing values are omitted from the deviation calculation. |
```

Reviewer 2: You can just say `calculation`, else say "`median_absolute_deviation` calculation" to be more precise. I prefer the former as we are just talking about `median_absolute_deviation` in this entire page.

Author: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents with missing values are omitted from the calculation. |
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the back and forth, let's call it `estimation` just to be correct.

Author: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents with missing values are omitted from the estimation. |
```

## Parameters

The `median_absolute_deviation` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type      | Description |
| :--       | :--               | :--            | :--         |
| `field`   | Required          | String         | The name of the numeric field for which the median absolute deviation is computed. |
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents with missing values are omitted from the estimation. |
| `compression` | Optional          | Numeric        | A parameter that [adjusts the balance between estimate accuracy and performance](#adjusting-estimation-accuracy). The value of `compression` must be greater than `0`. The default value is `1000`. |

## Example

> The following example calculates the median absolute deviation of the `DistanceMiles` field in the flights sample dataset:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example calculates the median absolute deviation of the `DistanceMiles` field in the `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_flights` dataset:
```

    "hits": []
  },
  "aggregations": {
    "median_absolute_deviation_DistanceMiles": {
      "value": 1830.917892238693
    }
  }
}
```

## Missing values

OpenSearch ignores missing and null values when computing `median_absolute_deviation`.

> You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/) for more information.
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The estimation error depends on the dataset, but is usually below 5%, even for `compression` values as low as 100. (The low example value of `10` is used here to illustrate the tradeoff effect, and is not recommended.)

Reviewer 2: nit: trade-off

Author: ```suggestion
The estimation error depends on the dataset, but is usually below 5%, even for `compression` values as low as 100. (The low example value of `10` is used here to illustrate the trade-off effect, and is not recommended.)
```

> Note the different value of the estimated parameter in the following response. For reference, the true median absolute deviation of `DistanceMiles` is `1831.076904296875`:

Reviewer 2: `1831.076904296875` - get the correct number from the very first example response.

-----
Note the increased performance (`took` time)..... and the less accurate value of estimated parameter...

Author: ```suggestion
Note the decreased computation time (`took` time) and the slightly less accurate value of the estimated parameter in the following response. For reference, the true median absolute deviation of `DistanceMiles` is `1831.076904296875`:
```

The first example actually is a slightly inaccurate estimate. I got (what I presume is the) true value by increasing `compression` to where the estimate stopped changing at large values.

Reviewer 2: Yep, you are right here. Thanks for taking the efforts to run this exercise.

I'm just wondering should we still call it `true` MAD or something else - since this is like a more accurate estimation, but still an estimated number with a high accuracy parameter.

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The estimation error depends on the dataset, but is usually below 5%, even for `compression` values as low as 100. (The low example value of `10` is used here to illustrate the trade-off effect, and is not recommended.)

Author: ```suggestion
The estimation error depends on the dataset, but is usually below 5%, even for `compression` values as low as `100`. (The low example value of `10` is used here to illustrate the trade-off effect, and is not recommended.)
```
